# Introduction

## What Is This Book About?

This book is a practical guide to writing your own x86 operating system. It is
designed to not give too much away with samples and code excerpts, but still
give enough help with the technical details. We've tried to collect parts of
the vast (and often excellent) expanse of material and tutorials out there, on
the web and otherwise, and add our own insights into the problems we
encountered and struggled with.

This book is not about the theory behind operating systems, or how any specific
operating system (OS) works. For OS theory we recommend _Modern Operating
Systems_ by Andrew Tanenbaum [@ostanenbaum]. Lists and details on current
operating systems are available on the internet.

The starting chapters are quite detailed and explicit, to quickly get you into
coding. Later chapters give more of an outline of what is needed, as more and
more of the implementation and design becomes up to the reader, who should now
be more familiar with the world of kernel development. At the end of some
chapters there are links for further reading, which might be interesting and
give a deeper understanding of the topics covered.

## The Reader

The reader of this book should be comfortable with UNIX/Linux, systems
programming and the C language. This book might of course also be a way to get
started learning those things, but it will be tougher going, especially where
we implicitly make use of these building blocks. Search engines and other
tutorials are often helpful if you get stuck.

## Credits, Thanks and Acknowledgements

We'd like to thank the OSDev community [@osdev] for their great wiki and
helpful members, and James Malloy for his eminent kernel development tutorial
[@malloy]. We'd also like to thank our supervisor Torbj√∂rn Granlund for his
insightful questions and interesting discussions.

Most of the CSS formatting of the book is based on the work by Scott Chacon for
the book Pro Git, <http://progit.org/>.

## Changes and Corrections

This book is hosted on Github - if you have any suggestions, comments or
corrections, just fork the book, write your changes, and send us a pull
request. We'll happily incorporate anything that makes this book better.

## License

All content is under the [Creative Commons Attribution Non Commercial Share
Alike 3.0 license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/us/). The
code samples are in the public domain - use them however you want. References
to this book are always received with warmth.
